Elecronic Pharmacy developed with Django, Python and sqlite3.

How it works?
 Doctors will log onto the system to create medication 
prescriptions for patients. When adding medication onto the prescription the system will 
automatically check for contra-indications related to any conditions the patient may have, as well as 
for interactions with medication previously prescribed to the patient. The prescription will be stored 
online and the patient may then go to any pharmacy in order to fill the prescription by giving his ID 
number to the pharmacist. The pharmacist will log onto the system to pull the prescription and 
dispense the medication.
The system will have the following users:
1. ADMIN USER
The admin user will mainly maintain records in the database such as:
• Medical Practice Records:
o Practice Name
o Practice Address
o Practice Contact Number
o Practice E-mail Address
o Practice Number
• Doctor Records:
o Doctor Name 
o Doctor Surname
o Doctor Contact Number
o Doctor E-mail Address
o Highest Qualification
o Practice Number (you may assume that a doctor will only work at one practice) 
o Health Council Registration Number
• Pharmacy Records:
o Pharmacy Name
o Pharmacy Address
o Pharmacy Contact Number
o Pharmacy E-mail Address
o Pharmacy License Number
o Pharmacy Responsible Pharmacist (one per pharmacy)
• Pharmacist Records:
o Pharmacist Name
o Pharmacist Surname
o Pharmacist Contact Number
o Pharmacist E-mail Address
o Pharmacist Registration Number
o Pharmacist Pharmacy (you may assume that a pharmacist will only work at one 
pharmacy)
• Condition Diagnosis Records (ICD-10)
29 April 2022
Page 2 of 3
• Active Ingredient Records
• Medication Records:
o Medication Name
o Dosage Form (e.g. capsule, tablet, chewable, syrup, suppository, etc.)
o Active Ingredient(s)
o Active Ingredient(s) Strength
o Schedule
• Contra-Indication Records
• Medication Interaction Records
2. PATIENTS
Patients will register themselves onto the system. The following information should be captured when 
registering:
o Patient ID Number
o Patient Name
o Patient Surname
o Patient Address
o Patient Contact Number
o Patient E-Mail Address
o Patient Date of Birth
The patient can view prescriptions that has been loaded on the system for them, as well as the status 
of each item on the prescription, for example prescribed or dispensed (also at which pharmacy it was 
dispensed). For repeat prescriptions, the patient should be able to view the number of repeats left. 
The FIRST time that a patient visits a doctor (any doctor) after registering on the system the doctor 
will see an alert that asks him to capture the patient’s medical history. The doctor will have to capture 
the following during that first visit:
o Patient’s chronic medical history: For example a list of chronic diseases – refer to the 
Condition Diagnosis Table that the Admin user will maintain. The doctor would thus, 
for example, capture that the patient was diagnosed with hypertension in April 2020 
and high cholesterol in June 2021. 
o Current chronic medication that the patient is taking.
o Any known patient drug allergies.
3. DOCTOR
A doctor will load prescriptions onto the system, as well as record chronic and acute diagnosis of 
patients. When loading a prescription the following information should appear on the prescription:
• Name, surname, qualification health council registration number, contact number and 
address of prescribing doctor.
• Name, surname, and ID number of patient.
• The date the prescription was issued.
• Name, dosage form, and strength of the medication.
• The quantity of medication prescribed. 
29 April 2022
Page 3 of 3
• Instructions for the administration of the dosage and frequency of administration.
• Number of times the prescribed medication may be repeated. Keep in mind that there might 
be several medications prescribed on one prescription and only some of them may be 
repeated.
As the doctor adds medication to the prescription the system must check for any contra-indications 
related to patient diagnosis, as well as medication interactions. Appropriate alerts should be displayed 
to the doctor if necessary. If the doctor chooses to ignore an alert he has to provide a reason that 
should be stored in the database.
4. PHARMACIST
When a patient arrives at a pharmacy he will give his ID number to the pharmacist. The pharmacist 
will then be able to view all active prescriptions for the patient on the system and select prescription(s) 
to dispense to the patient. If the patient tries to fill a repeat prescription within 20 days of a previous 
refill an alert should be displayed to the pharmacist. The pharmacist may choose to ignore the alert 
and still dispense the medication. If the pharmacist chooses to ignore an alert he has to provide a 
reason that should be stored in the database.
When the pharmacist selects medication to dispense the system should check for any contraindications related to patient diagnosis, as well as medication interactions, and patient medication 
allergies. Appropriate alerts should be displayed to the pharmacist if necessary. If the pharmacist 
chooses to ignore an alert he has to provide a reason that should be stored in the database. If the 
pharmacists suspects that there is a mistake on the prescription he may reject the entire prescription, 
or a specific item on the prescription. The pharmacist should add a note indicating his reason for 
rejection. The doctor should then be able to view the note and amend the prescription if necessary. 
When dispensing medication the dispensing pharmacy, dispensing pharmacist, dispensing date must 
be recorded. It may happen that some of the medication on the prescription is dispensed and some 
not. This may happen in cases where the medication is out of stock at that particular pharmacy or if 
the patient still has stock at home.
All of the above users must log into the system with their username and password.
